README.md, before:

<img src="https://massets.appsflyer.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/06/20092440/static-ziv_1TP.png"  width="400" >

# appsflyer-unity-plugin

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![GitHub tag](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/AppsFlyerSDK/appsflyer-unity-plugin)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/AppsFlyerSDK/appsflyer-unity-plugin)
[![Unit tests](https://github.com/AppsFlyerSDK/appsflyer-unity-plugin/actions/workflows/main.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/AppsFlyerSDK/appsflyer-unity-plugin/actions/workflows/main.yml)
[![check packages](https://github.com/af-margot/appsflyer-unity-plugin-beta/actions/workflows/checksums_files.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/af-margot/appsflyer-unity-plugin-beta/actions/workflows/checksums_files.yml)


🛠 In order for us to provide optimal support, we would kindly ask you to submit any issues to support@appsflyer.com

> *When submitting an issue please specify your AppsFlyer sign-up (account) email , your app ID , production steps, logs, code snippets and any additional relevant information.*

## 📖 The Unity documentation also be found [here](https://dev.appsflyer.com/hc/docs/unity-plugin)

### <a id="plugin-build-for"> This plugin is built for

- Android AppsFlyer SDK v6.17.3
- Android Purchase Connector 2.1.1
- iOS AppsFlyer SDK v6.17.7
- iOS Purchase Connector 6.17.7
---
## 📌 Important: Two Plugin Versions of iOS v6.17.7

We have released **two** versions of the AppsFlyer Unity plugin to support teams at different stages of migrating to **Google Play Billing Library v8.0.0**.

### Option A — `v6.17.7` (adds Billing v8 support)
- **What’s included:** Support for **Google Play Billing Library 8.0.0** on Android (Android Purchase Connector version - 2.2.0).
- **Impact:** This version may introduce **breaking changes** for apps that have **not yet migrated** to the Billing v8 APIs.
- **Unity IAP requirement:** If you choose this option, update **Unity IAP (`com.unity.purchasing`) to version 5.0.0 or newer** (we recommend the latest 5.x). Unity IAP 4.x does **not** include Billing v8.

### Option B — `v6.17.72` (no Billing v8 migration required)
- **Purpose:** For developers **not ready** to adopt Billing v8.
- **Bundled SDKs:** **iOS SDK 6.17.7** and **Android SDK 6.17.3**.
- **Impact:** Lets you update the AppsFlyer SDKs without changing your existing (pre‑v8) billing integration.

> **Note:** Google Play Billing changes are **Android‑only**; iOS is unaffected.
---

### <a id="init-sdk-deeplink"> AD_ID permission for Android

In v6.8.0 of the AppsFlyer SDK, we added the normal permission com.google.android.gms.permission.AD_ID to the SDK's AndroidManifest, to allow the SDK to collect the Android Advertising ID on apps targeting API 33. If your app is targeting children, you need to revoke this permission to comply with Google's Data policy. You can read more about it [here](https://dev.appsflyer.com/hc/docs/install-android-sdk#the-ad_id-permission).

---  
## <a id="new-in-6171">     🎉 New in 6.17.1 - Purchase Connector Integration 
- Starting from version 6.17.1, the **Purchase Connector is now integrated directly into the main AppsFlyer Unity plugin**. You no longer need to download, import, or maintain a separate Purchase Connector package.
- If you were previously using the standalone Purchase Connector from a separate repository, simply remove any references to `using AppsFlyerConnector;` from your codebase, as its functionality is now included in the main plugin under the `AppsFlyerSDK` namespace.
- The Purchase Connector now supports **StoreKit 2** for iOS 15+ alongside the existing StoreKit 1 support.
- For detailed migration instructions and new features, see our [Purchase Connector documentation](/docs/purchase-connector.md).

---
## <a id="breaking-changes-6175">     ❗❗ Breaking changes when updating to 6.17.5 ❗❗
- **In-App Purchase Validation API Changes**: The `validateAndSendInAppPurchase` method signatures have been updated for better type safety and cleaner code.
- **V2 Methods (Recommended)**: New overloads using structured data classes (`AFPurchaseDetailsAndroid`/`AFSDKPurchaseDetailsIOS`) are now the recommended approach.
- **Legacy Methods (Deprecated)**: The old string-based parameter methods are now deprecated but maintained for backward compatibility.
- **Migration Required**: If you're using the old `validateAndSendInAppPurchase` methods, consider migrating to the V2 versions for better maintainability.
- For detailed API documentation and migration examples, see our [API reference](/docs/API.md).

---  
## <a id="breaking-changes">     ❗❗ Breaking changes when updating to 6.12.20 ❗❗
- Starting from version 6.12.20, we have changed the way we distribute the plugin via UPM. The UPM branches will no longer hold a dependency for `com.google.external-dependency-manager` as it was proved to cause issues in different versions of Unity - to be clear, this dependency is still required to utilize our plugin, we just can't distribute the plugin with it in UPM form as the EDM4U dependency is [not available via UPM for quite a while already](https://github.com/googlesamples/unity-jar-resolver/issues/434#issuecomment-827028132) but is still available via `.unitypackage` or `.tgz` files, if you use UPM to fetch our plugin - [please download a suitable version of EDM4U](https://github.com/googlesamples/unity-jar-resolver) so you will be able to resolve the dependencies, or opt for [an installation without EDM4U](https://github.com/AppsFlyerSDK/appsflyer-unity-plugin/blob/master/docs/Installation.md#installation-without-unity-jar-resolver).
---  

## <a id="breaking-changes">     ❗❗ Breaking changes when updating to 6.6.0 ❗❗
- Starting version 6.6.0, there is no more need to differentiate between iOS and Android APIs. All APIs must be called with `AppsFlyer` class (even if the API is only iOS or Android).
- Please take into consideration that since version 6.6.0, most of the APIs require `initSDK` to be called prior to using them, and since version 6.10.10 only a handful of APIs will properly work when called prior to initialization: `setIsDebug`, `setCurrencyCode`, `setHost`, `disableSKAdNetwork`.

Example:

Before 6.6.0:
```c#
#if UNITY_IOS && !UNITY_EDITOR
    AppsFlyeriOS.waitForATTUserAuthorizationWithTimeoutInterval(60);
#endif
```
---

After 6.6.0:
```c#
#if UNITY_IOS && !UNITY_EDITOR
    AppsFlyer.waitForATTUserAuthorizationWithTimeoutInterval(60);
#endif
```
---

## <a id="strict-mode"> Strict Mode
The plugin supports a Strict Mode which completely removes the IDFA collection functionality and AdSupport framework dependencies.
Use the Strict Mode when developing apps for kids, for example.
More information about how to install the Strict Mode is available [here](/docs/Installation.md).


### <a id="init-sdk-deeplink"> AD_ID permission for Android

In v6.8.0 of the AppsFlyer SDK, we added the normal permission com.google.android.gms.permission.AD_ID to the SDK's AndroidManifest, to allow the SDK to collect the Android Advertising ID on apps targeting API 33. If your app is targeting children, you need to revoke this permission to comply with Google's Data policy. You can read more about it [here](https://dev.appsflyer.com/hc/docs/install-android-sdk#the-ad_id-permission).



 ---
## <a id="plugin-build-for"> 🚀 Getting Started
- [Installation](/docs/Installation.md)
- [Integration](/docs/BasicIntegration.md)
- [Test integration](/docs/Testing.md)
- [In-app events](/docs/InAppEvents.md)
- [Send Consent for DMA Compliance](/docs/DMAConsent.md)
- [Uninstall measurement](/docs/UninstallMeasurement.md)
## <a id="plugin-build-for"> 💰 Purchase Connector
- [Purchase Connector (ROI360)](/docs/purchase-connector.md)
## <a id="plugin-build-for"> 🔗 Deep Linking
- [Integration](/docs/DeepLinkIntegrate.md)
- [Unified Deep Link (UDL)](/docs/UnifiedDeepLink.md)
- [User invite](/docs/UserInvite.md)
## <a id="plugin-build-for"> 🧪 Sample App
- [ButterFlyer](https://github.com/AppsFlyerSDK/appsflyer-unity-sample-app)

----  
### [API reference](/docs/API.md)    
### [Troubleshooting](/docs/Troubleshooting.md)

Commit message:

Revise support contact details in README
Updated support contact information and added instructions for using the Customer Assistant Chatbot.

README.md, after:

<img src="https://massets.appsflyer.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/06/20092440/static-ziv_1TP.png"  width="400" >

# appsflyer-unity-plugin

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![GitHub tag](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/AppsFlyerSDK/appsflyer-unity-plugin)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/AppsFlyerSDK/appsflyer-unity-plugin)
[![Unit tests](https://github.com/AppsFlyerSDK/appsflyer-unity-plugin/actions/workflows/main.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/AppsFlyerSDK/appsflyer-unity-plugin/actions/workflows/main.yml)
[![check packages](https://github.com/af-margot/appsflyer-unity-plugin-beta/actions/workflows/checksums_files.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/af-margot/appsflyer-unity-plugin-beta/actions/workflows/checksums_files.yml)


🛠 In order for us to provide optimal support, please contact AppsFlyer support through the Customer Assistant Chatbot for assistance with troubleshooting issues or product guidance. </br>
To do so, please follow [this article](https://support.appsflyer.com/hc/en-us/articles/23583984402193-Using-the-Customer-Assistant-Chatbot)


## 📖 The Unity documentation also be found [here](https://dev.appsflyer.com/hc/docs/unity-plugin)

### <a id="plugin-build-for"> This plugin is built for

- Android AppsFlyer SDK v6.17.3
- Android Purchase Connector 2.1.1
- iOS AppsFlyer SDK v6.17.7
- iOS Purchase Connector 6.17.7
---
## 📌 Important: Two Plugin Versions of iOS v6.17.7

We have released **two** versions of the AppsFlyer Unity plugin to support teams at different stages of migrating to **Google Play Billing Library v8.0.0**.

### Option A — `v6.17.7` (adds Billing v8 support)
- **What’s included:** Support for **Google Play Billing Library 8.0.0** on Android (Android Purchase Connector version - 2.2.0).
- **Impact:** This version may introduce **breaking changes** for apps that have **not yet migrated** to the Billing v8 APIs.
- **Unity IAP requirement:** If you choose this option, update **Unity IAP (`com.unity.purchasing`) to version 5.0.0 or newer** (we recommend the latest 5.x). Unity IAP 4.x does **not** include Billing v8.

### Option B — `v6.17.72` (no Billing v8 migration required)
- **Purpose:** For developers **not ready** to adopt Billing v8.
- **Bundled SDKs:** **iOS SDK 6.17.7** and **Android SDK 6.17.3**.
- **Impact:** Lets you update the AppsFlyer SDKs without changing your existing (pre‑v8) billing integration.

> **Note:** Google Play Billing changes are **Android‑only**; iOS is unaffected.
---

### <a id="init-sdk-deeplink"> AD_ID permission for Android

In v6.8.0 of the AppsFlyer SDK, we added the normal permission com.google.android.gms.permission.AD_ID to the SDK's AndroidManifest, to allow the SDK to collect the Android Advertising ID on apps targeting API 33. If your app is targeting children, you need to revoke this permission to comply with Google's Data policy. You can read more about it [here](https://dev.appsflyer.com/hc/docs/install-android-sdk#the-ad_id-permission).

---  
## <a id="new-in-6171">     🎉 New in 6.17.1 - Purchase Connector Integration 
- Starting from version 6.17.1, the **Purchase Connector is now integrated directly into the main AppsFlyer Unity plugin**. You no longer need to download, import, or maintain a separate Purchase Connector package.
- If you were previously using the standalone Purchase Connector from a separate repository, simply remove any references to `using AppsFlyerConnector;` from your codebase, as its functionality is now included in the main plugin under the `AppsFlyerSDK` namespace.
- The Purchase Connector now supports **StoreKit 2** for iOS 15+ alongside the existing StoreKit 1 support.
- For detailed migration instructions and new features, see our [Purchase Connector documentation](/docs/purchase-connector.md).

---
## <a id="breaking-changes-6175">     ❗❗ Breaking changes when updating to 6.17.5 ❗❗
- **In-App Purchase Validation API Changes**: The `validateAndSendInAppPurchase` method signatures have been updated for better type safety and cleaner code.
- **V2 Methods (Recommended)**: New overloads using structured data classes (`AFPurchaseDetailsAndroid`/`AFSDKPurchaseDetailsIOS`) are now the recommended approach.
- **Legacy Methods (Deprecated)**: The old string-based parameter methods are now deprecated but maintained for backward compatibility.
- **Migration Required**: If you're using the old `validateAndSendInAppPurchase` methods, consider migrating to the V2 versions for better maintainability.
- For detailed API documentation and migration examples, see our [API reference](/docs/API.md).

---  
## <a id="breaking-changes">     ❗❗ Breaking changes when updating to 6.12.20 ❗❗
- Starting from version 6.12.20, we have changed the way we distribute the plugin via UPM. The UPM branches will no longer hold a dependency for `com.google.external-dependency-manager` as it was proved to cause issues in different versions of Unity - to be clear, this dependency is still required to utilize our plugin, we just can't distribute the plugin with it in UPM form as the EDM4U dependency is [not available via UPM for quite a while already](https://github.com/googlesamples/unity-jar-resolver/issues/434#issuecomment-827028132) but is still available via `.unitypackage` or `.tgz` files, if you use UPM to fetch our plugin - [please download a suitable version of EDM4U](https://github.com/googlesamples/unity-jar-resolver) so you will be able to resolve the dependencies, or opt for [an installation without EDM4U](https://github.com/AppsFlyerSDK/appsflyer-unity-plugin/blob/master/docs/Installation.md#installation-without-unity-jar-resolver).
---  

## <a id="breaking-changes">     ❗❗ Breaking changes when updating to 6.6.0 ❗❗
- Starting version 6.6.0, there is no more need to differentiate between iOS and Android APIs. All APIs must be called with `AppsFlyer` class (even if the API is only iOS or Android).
- Please take into consideration that since version 6.6.0, most of the APIs require `initSDK` to be called prior to using them, and since version 6.10.10 only a handful of APIs will properly work when called prior to initialization: `setIsDebug`, `setCurrencyCode`, `setHost`, `disableSKAdNetwork`.

Example:

Before 6.6.0:
```c#
#if UNITY_IOS && !UNITY_EDITOR
    AppsFlyeriOS.waitForATTUserAuthorizationWithTimeoutInterval(60);
#endif
```
---

After 6.6.0:
```c#
#if UNITY_IOS && !UNITY_EDITOR
    AppsFlyer.waitForATTUserAuthorizationWithTimeoutInterval(60);
#endif
```
---

## <a id="strict-mode"> Strict Mode
The plugin supports a Strict Mode which completely removes the IDFA collection functionality and AdSupport framework dependencies.
Use the Strict Mode when developing apps for kids, for example.
More information about how to install the Strict Mode is available [here](/docs/Installation.md).


### <a id="init-sdk-deeplink"> AD_ID permission for Android

In v6.8.0 of the AppsFlyer SDK, we added the normal permission com.google.android.gms.permission.AD_ID to the SDK's AndroidManifest, to allow the SDK to collect the Android Advertising ID on apps targeting API 33. If your app is targeting children, you need to revoke this permission to comply with Google's Data policy. You can read more about it [here](https://dev.appsflyer.com/hc/docs/install-android-sdk#the-ad_id-permission).



 ---
## <a id="plugin-build-for"> 🚀 Getting Started
- [Installation](/docs/Installation.md)
- [Integration](/docs/BasicIntegration.md)
- [Test integration](/docs/Testing.md)
- [In-app events](/docs/InAppEvents.md)
- [Send Consent for DMA Compliance](/docs/DMAConsent.md)
- [Uninstall measurement](/docs/UninstallMeasurement.md)
## <a id="plugin-build-for"> 💰 Purchase Connector
- [Purchase Connector (ROI360)](/docs/purchase-connector.md)
## <a id="plugin-build-for"> 🔗 Deep Linking
- [Integration](/docs/DeepLinkIntegrate.md)
- [Unified Deep Link (UDL)](/docs/UnifiedDeepLink.md)
- [User invite](/docs/UserInvite.md)
## <a id="plugin-build-for"> 🧪 Sample App
- [ButterFlyer](https://github.com/AppsFlyerSDK/appsflyer-unity-sample-app)

----  
### [API reference](/docs/API.md)    
### [Troubleshooting](/docs/Troubleshooting.md)
